Hello, thank you all for coming.
Welcome to session 401,
Leveraging Cocoa's Layer-Backed Views.
Our topic for this morning's talk
is an AppKit level technology
that we introduced in Leopard,
and we like to call
it Layer-Backed Views.
And I'll talk a little bit in
a moment about what exactly
I mean when I use that term.
My name is Troy Stephens.
I'm an AppKit engineer.
For the most part,
this is oriented as sort of
an intermediate-level talk,
such that you may get the most
benefit out of it if you've already
had the opportunity to sort of
get your hands in there and start
experimenting with using Layer-Backed
View functionality in AppKit.
However,
for the benefit of those who have not,
and also to help put the
rest of the talk in context,
I will begin with a brief review,
sort of looking at what
Layer-Backed View mode is,
and why we introduced
this new operating mode,
and why it might be interesting
for your applications to work with.
From there,
we will dive in quickly to new material
and sort of the meat of the talk,
which will be a series of tips
and tricks-style topics designed
to help sort of demystify the
operation of Layer-Backed View mode
and provide answers to some common
questions that we get from developers
about using Layer-Backed Views.
And I'd also like to point out that there
are a couple of pieces of sample code
that will be available very shortly that
illustrate some of the techniques that
I'll be talking about in this session,
so I encourage you to download that
sample code when it becomes available
and examine it at your leisure.
To get some more concrete ideas
and code that you can copy and
paste into your own apps or emulate
to perform these techniques.
So first, a quick review,
sort of a recap.
What exactly is Layer-Backed View mode,
and what do we mean
when we talk about this?
Layer-backed View Mode is a special
operating mode of AppKit's NSView system
of the view hierarchy that is based
on Core Animation's rendering and
compositing model and animation engine.
Core Animation,
as is widely known by now,
is a very powerful framework for
compositing and animating content.
It is the basis for the amazing
iPhone and iPod Touch user interfaces.
It's an Objective-C API,
part of the same Quartz
Core framework that encompasses
Core Image and Core Video.
Core Animation presents to you,
the developer,
the model of a tree or hierarchy
of layers that are in many ways
analogous to AppKit's NSViews
and AppKit's NSView hierarchy.
Each layer has its own position
and orientation and bounds.
It has content that it either
displays or is drawn within it.
Each layer has its own local
coordinate system that it draws into,
so it doesn't have to worry
about what context it's in.
Every layer has its own little world.
Layers can have sublayers,
and those sublayers can
have sublayers of their own.
The Core Animation layer provides
the tree or hierarchy construct,
so you have the ability to build very
complex kinds of scenes with layers.
There are a lot of architectural
similarities that you'll notice as
you look at the CA Layer API and
compare it with the NSView API,
but there are also some very
important key differences,
and I'd like to talk
about some of those today.
One of the most important features of
layers that makes Core Animation layer
compositing so powerful is that you
have per-layer content buffering.
So this is distinct from what you're used
to with working with NSViews with the
ordinary compositing model for views.
You can see that you have a window
where all of the rendering that
views do becomes inextricably
intertwined in the window.
We're rendering into a
single-window backing store,
so any time you need to update
some part of the window,
you end up having to go through and
redraw all of the views that touch
that part of the window because all
the data gets mixed together in the
pixels of the window backing store.
So when you're in layer-backed
mode or when you're using
Core Animation layers to render,
you have per-layer content buffering.
Each layer gets its own backing store,
and obviously this costs a
bit more in terms of graphic.
So you can see that you
have a lot of pixels now,
and you have a backing
store for each layer.
But at the same time,
it enables some very powerful fluid
kind of animation techniques because
rather than spending a whole lot of
time redrawing content that is static,
we can very quickly move things around
and just recomposite them as we go.
Along with this,
Core Animation provides a very powerful
implied animation model wherein,
by default,
changing any property of a layer
initiates an animation or interpolation
to the new value over time rather than
immediately jumping to the new value.
This animation model is also asynchronous
in that Core Animation executes
animations on a background thread such
that they're not waiting on your main
thread's run loop or things like that.
It's all happening asynchronously
in a way that everything
is very nice and fluid.
In addition to this,
Core Animation provides a very
powerful and expressive set of
animation description classes.
There are six classes,
four of them are concrete,
and from those you can compose
just about any kind of animation
description that you can imagine,
put together a request for
a kind of animation that
you want to show on screen.
And these classes are so powerful,
CA Animation and all of
its descendant classes,
that we've adopted the use of
these and lifted them up from
Core Animation up to the AppKit layer.
We're using them in AppKit APIs as
the means for expressing animations
for views and for windows.
Thank you.
Core Animation features:
Core Image Filter Effects, Shadows,
and Masking.
Core Animation also serves as a
powerful unifying graphics architecture,
the likes of which we haven't had before.
Core Animation features: Quartz Composer,
OpenGL, QuickTime Movie Playback,
and Core Animation Layer Tree.
There are a number of things
that Core Animation does not
attempt to provide that are
beyond the scope of its design.
First and foremost,
Core Animation is not a
user interface toolkit.
Although it is the foundation for
other powerful user interfaces,
such as UIKit on the phone and
the Layer-Backed View mode of
AppKit's NSView system on the Mac.
You won't find things like buttons,
sliders, table views,
all the sorts of UI elements that you
usually build your interfaces from,
that you use to present data to users
and allow them to edit that data.
All of that stuff is beyond
the scope of Core Animation,
which is really focused as a
graphics-level compositing and animation
framework that's very lean and mean.
So in hand with that,
there are a bunch of other consequences.
You won't see things like high-level
event handling mechanisms,
the concept of input
focus or first responder,
the responder chain for delegating
responsibility for handling events,
things like accessibility support,
drag and drop, tooltips, cursor wrecks,
tracking wrecks.
These are all user interface
toolkit-level features that you
really need something more like
AppKit or UIKit to provide.
So we have these two sorts of frameworks,
and when Core Animation came along,
we thought, well,
we wanted to really enable developers
to readily take advantage of all these
great animation capabilities to take
advantage of the benefits of per-layer or
per-view content buffering very easily.
But we didn't want you guys to
have to rewrite your user interface
code or design and build whole
new UIs in Interface Builder.
Leo Parmigiano-Rossi So basically
what we came up with was the idea of
offering automatic mirroring of a view
tree into a corresponding layer tree,
where you continue to work primarily
with views and let AppKit automatically
manage a layer tree into which
that view tree is mirrored.
And this basic concept is what I'm
referring to as layer-backed views.
And to get a concrete visual illustration
of just exactly what I'm talking about,
let's take a trip back down memory
lane and go to demo and take a
look at Cocoa's Layer-Backed Views.
So we have Cocoa Slides,
which is the application that was
used to demo this functionality
when it was first introduced,
and we'll launch Cocoa Slides.
This is a simple sort of image browser
that presents a bunch of thumbnails of
image files as slides for anyone here
who knows what slides are or remembers.
The main take-home point here,
and I want to point out that this is
available publicly as sample code,
developer.apple.com slash sample
code slash Cocoa Slides or search
for Cocoa Slides on the ADC site.
This remains an excellent
example of how to do a number of
things with Layer-Backed Views.
The interesting thing to note
here is that this entire user
interface is built using views.
When you look at the source code,
you'll notice there's very little in here
that has to do with either animation or
even less to do with layers directly.
All the code manipulates views directly,
so these are all views in here,
except this whole area,
the sort of dark gray area,
canvas area here where
all the slides are housed,
is Layer-Backed.
So we can do things like very readily
sort of move things around very fluidly.
Because all these views have
their content automatically
buffered on a per-view basis.
So we're not doing re-rendering,
we're just moving things around,
and Core Animation is doing all
this on a background thread.
Leo Parmigiano, CEO, At the same time,
these views remain fully interactive.
These are standard checkboxes, NSButtons,
in other words,
the checkbox style of NSButton
at the top of each slide.
We can check off some slides.
Let's say we want to show a slideshow.
Here's another feature that
we get by being layer-backed.
We have the opportunity to use
all kinds of Core Image transition
filters to very easily transition
between one image and another.
When you look at the code for this,
it's really very simple
what's being done.
We specify a transition
that we want to use,
and then we're just pulling
one subview out of the window,
one image view that's
showing the previous image,
and stick in another image view.
And when we do that,
replace subview with operation
through the containing views animator,
the transition gets picked up and used,
and it's really very automatic.
So you can do all kinds of
things very powerfully like this.
But the thing to remember here
is these are all standard views.
We can add things like shadow effects.
That might be a little difficult to see,
but it gives you a bit
more of a 3D effect.
That's something we just switch on.
We tell the view, set shadow.
Here's a shadow to use,
and it all just sort of works.
So this is sort of, visually,
this is what Layer-Backed
Views are all about.
Enabling you to work with views but
leverage Core Animation to get some
powerful effects and fluid animations.
So if we could go back to slides, please.
We'll talk about how all this is done.
So how does this work
in this application?
How do you get your view
subtree to become layer-backed?
Well, we added a simple new interface.
SetWantsLayer is the setter method for a
new wants layer property that views have.
This was added in Leopard.
You setWantsLayer yes for a view
and it has a number of consequences.
When you switch this on,
AppKit automatically
mirrors that view subtree.
Everything from that view on down through
its descendants all the way to the
leaves into a corresponding layer tree.
So each view gets a corresponding layer.
We call it the views backing
layer because that's the
backing store for the view.
The views, as far as they're concerned,
are drawing as they normally would.
They implement draw rect and they
get their draw rect called by AppKit.
Only instead of the drawing
they do going into the window,
AppKit redirects that drawing into
the views corresponding backing layer.
So we're capturing content separately
on a sort of per view basis,
the way a professional animator
might drawing cartoons on
animation cells so that you don't
have to keep redrawing things.
You can just move things around.
To get animation effects
more efficiently.
Similarly, when you mark part of the
view as needing display,
we make that carry over to the layer.
So we redisplay that portion of
the view into the corresponding
portion of the layer.
Any view property changes you make,
AppKit automatically maps those
to layer property changes.
We figure out which layer property
needs to change so that the layer tree
that the user is actually seeing in
the window looks exactly like the view
tree that you think they're seeing.
And this is what we call sort of a push
model where changes are made on views.
And AppKit pushes those changes over
to the corresponding layer properties.
So we expect you to mostly continue
interacting with views wherever you can
and let AppKit automatically push the
changes to the layer tree and manage it.
Wherever possible,
AppKit delegates animation execution
to Core Animation's background
threads that can be asynchronous.
So if we can map animations
that you request onto
animations of layer properties,
we'll do that.
In some cases, that's not possible.
For example, when resizing views,
currently there's no general way for a
view to tell AppKit how its content will
be affected when the view is resized.
So as far as we know,
to be safe and to be correct,
we always have to redraw a view every
time it's resized by a little bit,
including during animation.
So we do those kinds of
things on the main run loop.
We use, under the hood,
Core Animation's evaluation
engine for CA animation,
so the results all come out the same,
but they're all executed by
AppKit on the main thread.
Similar thing for all
non-layer properties.
Any custom properties you
define for your views,
as we'll see,
that you want to make animatable,
those are executed on the main thread.
So visually, what this looks like,
if we have a single slide,
it's actually composed
of a set of four views,
or actually we have two
text fields at the bottom,
so it's five.
There's a slide carrier view that's
the container view at the top.
You have a standard NS button,
a pretty standard image view,
a simple subclass,
a text field at the bottom that
specifies the dimensions of the image.
So when we switch on layer backing,
AppKit magically creates a layer tree
that corresponds to that view tree.
Each view gets a corresponding layer,
and we wire those up together.
So we have a set of four views,
Each view gets a corresponding layer,
and we wire those up together.
And that in a nutshell is the
idea of Layer-Backed Views.
Hopefully that's fairly
clear as an overview.
So now let's dive into some tips
and techniques and some concrete
tips that I hope will help you
in dealing with various issues.
We'll look at layer management
and sort of the life cycles of
layers and how layers come and go.
Some people find these things surprising.
AppKit does manage layers and
they appear and disappear and are
associated and dissociated from your
views in ways that can be surprising.
But if you know how to handle that,
it's not a problem.
We'll look at text rendering.
In Layer-Backed Mode,
people have been surprised
that text rendering doesn't
quite come out the same.
And why is that?
We'll look at that.
Driving motion programmatically,
a simple tip but a useful one.
We'll look at some performance,
drawing and debugging tips.
And then we'll dive into a couple more
lengthy and in-depth sections where we'll
talk about how to sequence animations.
People often ask, well,
how can I make animation A go first
and then animation B start after that,
animation C?
And that's very easily
done using CA animations.
And we'll look at how to do that.
And then lastly,
we'll take a look at NSView's
geometry model and how it compares
to CA layers geometry model.
And that's something that can be
useful to know a little bit about
when you're trying to figure out what
kinds of keys to hang your animations
off of and that sort of thing.
We'll see that when we get to it.
So first, let's talk about the
life cycles of layers.
And ideally,
we want you to have your views able
to operate sort of agnostically.
They can work in layer-backed mode and
they can work in non-layer-backed mode.
And for the most part,
for general simple views,
you won't really need to worry about
which mode you're operating in,
hopefully, because AppKit will take care
of all the details of mapping
your view into a layer.
Leo Parmigiano-Rossi But occasionally,
maybe you want to take advantage of,
maybe you have a special view where,
okay, you're drawing some items and
if you're in layer-backed mode,
well, hey,
you can use a Core Image filter
to provide a nice highlight
effect on the selected item.
Leo Parmigiano-Rossi And that avoids
having to redraw the item when
you want to select it or deselect
it because you just apply the
filter and it's all done on the GPU.
Leo Parmigiano-Rossi But you want your
view to also work in non-layer-backed
mode if people are using it in that case.
So you might want it to be able
to adapt to being in layer-backed
or non-layer-backed mode.
Leo Parmigiano-Rossi You also might
want to be able to add sub-layers of
your own or set custom layer paths.
Leo Parmigiano-Rossi
So how does this work?
To understand this,
we first need to understand
that there are two basic
modes of Core Animation usage
that we support in AppKit.
Leo Parmigiano-Rossi And the first
one listed here is the one that we're
talking about primarily in this talk,
layer-backed views,
where you have a view tree,
you flip on layer-backing,
AppKit automatically creates
and manages the backing layers
for you and for the most part,
you don't need to deal with them at all.
We also support a standalone mode where
maybe you have a portion of your user
interface where you just want to work
with Core Animation layers directly.
You're not building user interface
where you need dials and sliders
and buttons and things like that.
You're showing some graphics or an
animation that you want to present and
you just want to use CA layers directly.
You may have a layer
tree you want to render.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco So the
standalone mode is a mode in
which you can simply tell a view,
I want you to just be a canvas for
rendering and animating this layer tree.
That's all I want you to do.
I'm going to give you the layer tree.
You construct a layer tree yourself.
You populate it with content yourself.
You set up all the geometry yourself.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco You tell the view,
set layer.
Here's your root layer
that I want you to render.
And then you tell the view after that,
set once layer, yes.
And that flips on
AppKit layer tree rendering,
but we don't otherwise
interfere with the layer tree.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco The root layer
will be resized to Leo Parmigiano-Rocco
fit always in the area of the
view when the view resizes,
but all the other layers are left alone.
And so that's for using
core animation directly.
And the reason this is important
to understand these two different
modes of usage is that AppKit treats
the layers that it creates and
manages for you differently from
the layers that you give it.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco
If you give us a layer,
we don't want to interfere
with any of its properties.
You may have set content on the layer.
Well,
if we set needs display on the layer,
your content will disappear and
we don't know how to replace it.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco We generally
try not to interfere with the
properties of layers that you give us.
But when we create the backing layer,
we assume what we can mark it
as needing display and you want
us to draw view content into it.
It's a view backing layer.
So we'll do those kinds of things.
Anytime the views geometry changes,
as I said,
we push those changes to the layer.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco As I said,
the root layer of a
standalone layer tree,
this happens to also.
For backing layers again,
AppKit will destroy and
recreate views backing layers
at will to manage resources.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco Remember,
every pixel that your view
covers is a pixel in that views
backing layers backing store.
So we're allocating
lots of graphic memory,
lots of texture memory for
all these view backing layers.
And if we figure out that, well,
your view is not visible anymore,
it's been pulled out of
the window or something,
we want to reclaim those
resources for the system to use.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco So this
kind of thing can happen.
You can lose your backing layer when,
say, someone does set wants layer no on
a view higher up in the hierarchy.
Maybe you had an ancestor that had wants
layer set to yes and your whole subtree.
was drawing layer back.
Now that gets it to know and all
those descendants of that view
cease to become layer backed.
We'll pull the backing
layers off of them.
This can also happen, as I said,
when you pull a view subtree,
when you're pruning and grafting,
you pull a view subtree out of window
by doing remove from superview,
backing layers can be torn down then too.
And one common case where this
happens is if you have views in a tab
view and there are subviews of the
tab view and they're layer backed.
If the user switches tabs,
it just so happens that the mechanism
that's used for doing the tab swapping
is to prune and graft those view
subtrees into and out of the window.
So when you user switches tabs, oh,
your backing layers might go away
for some of your views that were in
the tab that they switched away from.
Likewise,
if you added properties or sublayers
to an AppKit-owned view backing layer,
these things can disappear
unexpectedly because,
well, the backing layer goes away
and there's nothing referencing
those sublayers anymore.
So, therefore, you tend to need a way,
if you are going to be going in
there and you can access a views
layer with the layer getter method,
you can go in there and
tweak layer properties.
If you're going to do that kind of thing,
you really need a way to react to
your backing layer coming and going
if it's one that's managed by AppKit.
So, how can you do this?
One of the first things
that developers try is,
you know, it makes sense,
override setWantsLayer because
that's what switches this on and off,
right?
Well, it turns out that this
doesn't work so well,
and the reason for that is that while
setWantsLayer is recursive in its effect,
when you do wantsLayer yes for a view,
it affects the whole subtree,
setWantsLayer itself as a method
is not invoked recursively.
So, if you're a descendant of a
view that became layer-backed,
well, you're becoming layer-backed too,
but you're not going to get
the setWantsLayer yes message.
So, that doesn't work out so well.
How about Set Layer?
Well, it turns out this is an excellent
place to handle layers coming
and going because this is,
in addition to being the public
API that you use to provide a
standalone layer tree to AppKit,
this is also the funnel point that
AppKit goes through when it associates
a backing layer with a view and when
it pulls that backing layer off.
So if you override Set Layer in
your custom view class,
call up to Super Set Layer to
let it do its thing,
and then you can look at the new
layer parameter that's coming in.
And if it's non-nil, well,
then you're becoming layer-backed
or maybe you're getting a different,
you should be prepared to
have had a layer before,
but now you're getting a different type
of backing layer because AppKit might
need to substitute a different time,
a different kind of layer.
There are different kinds of layers
for different kinds of rendering.
Let's say your view decides it's
going to start rendering using OpenGL,
it associates in this OpenGL context.
We might in the future say, okay,
we're going to tear it down.
We're going to tear down that CA layer
and give you a CA OpenGL layer.
So you may get a layer where
you didn't have one before,
you may get a different layer,
or you may get a parameter of nil,
meaning that your view is
ceasing to be layer-backed and
we're tearing the layer down.
So overriding Set Layer,
this is an excellent place to respond
to all of these things because whenever
a view acquires or loses a layer,
the view gets a Set Layer message.
It doesn't matter what
triggered the mode switch,
so it's a great place to set up your
additional properties or sublayers.
So the take-home point, override.
set layer to do this kind of stuff.
[Transcript missing]
To understand why that is,
we'll need to look at the
two basic kinds of text
anti-aliasing that Quartz supports.
First, we have what I call whole-pixel
anti-aliasing that treats
each pixel as a discrete unit.
And then we have the more advanced
sort of sub-pixel anti-aliasing,
also called LCD anti-aliasing,
because it relies on special properties
of the LCD panels we all use now.
This is also called font
smoothing in the API.
So whole-pixel anti-aliasing, first,
how does that work?
Well,
let's say you have a grid of pixels,
you've cleared the
background color white,
and you've got a glyph that you want
to rasterize into that grid of pixels.
You want to draw a letter A in black.
Well, with whole-pixel anti-aliasing,
again, we treat each pixel as a unit,
and what the graphics system does is
it computes the partial coverage of
the glyph on each of these squares.
And if 70% of the square is covered
by a piece of that ideal vector glyph,
then you'll get 70% of the foreground
color blended with 30%. And you
end up with sort of a nicely,
mostly nicely smoothed glyph there that
when you look at normal magnification,
it looks a lot smoother
than the old jagged text we
used to get a long time ago.
So that was an improvement on alias text.
But then on OS X,
the graphics system added the
concept of sub-pixel anti-alias text.
And there,
let's say you have the same situation.
You have a white background,
you have a black glyph that you're
trying to rasterize on top of it.
But in this case,
the graphics system knows that it
can treat... Each pixel is actually
being composed of three discrete
components that are adjacent to
each other and not overlapping.
So in each pixel cell on an LCD display,
you have the red component
occupies the left-hand third,
the green component is
in the middle third,
and the blue component is
in the right-hand third.
And effectively, for anti-aliasing,
this triples our resolution.
If we look at each of those components
as if it was almost a separate pixel,
now we can anti-alias with
triple the horizontal resolution.
And what this ends up looking like to
users is not quite the eyesore there.
It's more of all the white pixels
sort of blend together to white
where R equals G equals B equals one.
That sort of blends out to white when
you're looking at normal magnification.
And for the areas around the edges,
you end up getting these sort of color
fringes that result from different
amounts of blending of the red,
green and blue because we're
computing different coverage values.
But when you zoom out,
if you go across the street
and you look at this,
it looks like a nicely
anti-aliased glyph.
So that's all well and good,
but why is there a problem with
doing this in Layer-Backed Mode?
Well, the situation,
the problem there is the same thing
that's the benefit for doing animations.
In Layer-Backed Mode, again,
each view is drawn into its own separate
layer rather than being commingled
with the drawing that other views have
drawn into the Window Backing Store.
And this is wonderful for animation,
but it turns out it doesn't work
out so well for text anti-aliasing.
And the reason for that is that
subpixel or LCD anti-aliasing relies
on having an opaque background
to draw into at compositing time.
And to reiterate that,
there really is no way,
no good way that you can perform
high quality subpixel anti-aliasing
without having an opaque background,
unless say we added two more alpha
components and we'd have six samples
per pixel and a whole lot more graph,
about 50% more graphics memory usage.
So really you need an opaque background.
You need to know your
background at draw time.
Well, in Layer-Backed Mode, I mean,
we might have a text field
that draws text into itself,
but it's not drawing the background.
It's the window or some other view higher
up that's providing the background.
And the background only gets in
there later when the layer tree
is fully drawn and then finally
composited as the last step.
So, like I said,
many kinds of views and controls do
no background drawing of their own.
Unfortunately,
making matters a little worse,
LCD anti-aliasing or font smoothing
is switched on by default in
the graphics context that you
get when you're asked to draw.
So the graphics system will happily
do its best to try to do subpixel
anti-aliasing into a transparent
background if that's what you have.
And unfortunately, to some eyes,
those results can actually look
worse than if you were just
attempting whole pixel anti-aliasing.
So, okay, we get it.
There's a problem.
How do you solve this problem?
Well, there are a couple of
different approaches.
If it's acceptable to you to put
an opaque background in your view,
that's the simplest way to do this.
So you give the text a solid
background to draw into.
If you have something
like an NSTextField,
this is real easy because NSTextField
has a set background color property.
So you can set the text field's
background color in code if you want.
Be sure to also set the text
field to draw its background
or it will just ignore that
background color that you just set.
And you can also do this in Interface
Builder without writing anything.
any code.
For other types of controls
that show text but don't have an
analogous background color property,
one thing you can do is
subclass the control or view,
override Draw Rect,
and provide your own background drawing.
And that's as simple as at
the top of your Draw Rect,
filling with some background
color that you want.
It doesn't have to be
window background color.
It's whatever you know you're
going to be compositing over later.
Do an NS Rect fill.
If you saw Ken's talk
earlier this morning,
you might think I'm going to get
in a little bit of trouble here
with him because I'm telling
you to use a Rect fill that uses
basically a replace operation,
a copy operation.
But that's okay here because the
layer owns its own backing store.
We're really replacing
the pixels in the layer.
We could do source over two because
it'll be cleared to transparent.
It doesn't matter either way.
But we're putting a solid opaque
fill in the backing store before
we call up to Super Draw Rect,
and that way you will get
subpixel anti-aliasing.
Well, what if that's not an option?
What if you're going to be moving
your view around over a complex
background and you don't want it to be
carrying this big slug of color with
it that makes everything look awful?
The alternative then in those cases is to
fall back to whole pixel anti-aliasing.
So what you can do is
turn off font smoothing,
and this is a similar kind of thing where
you can subclass your viewer control,
override Draw Rect,
and use the CG context set should smooth
fonts call to message the CG context.
So you can use the CG context
that you're drawing into,
tell it,
I want to turn off font smoothing,
and then call up to Super Draw Rect.
And at least then you get better
looking whole pixel anti-aliasing.
So unfortunately, this is other than the
slide we had before,
this is a little difficult to illustrate
without being on a machine where you can
actually look at this magnified in Pixie.
But we're providing a subpixel
anti-aliasing example.
It's a real simple app that allows you
to turn layer backing on and off for
a set of checkboxes and text fields.
And some of these checkboxes and text
fields are going to be in the layer.
fields in the example implement some of
the techniques that I just mentioned.
So I encourage you to
take a look at this,
look at the rendered results with
Pixie and compare between layer
backed and non-layer backed mode to
understand how this all works and how
you can make your text look better.
So after that complex discussion,
let's have a real quick tip.
One of the things people
often ask about is,
how can I drive motion programmatically?
Core animation gives you these
ways to express canned animations,
these sort of pre-planned paths of
motion for different types of properties.
But what if you're hooking things
up to a game physics engine
and you're simulating gravity?
Or you really don't know what the
position of an object is going
to be until you calculate your
next simulation frame or whatever?
Well, this is really easy to do.
And it barely merits a slide,
but it's worth pointing out
because people often ask about it.
Because even when you're
not using animations,
you can get a lot of benefit from being
layer-backed or from using layers.
If you're using layer-backed views,
the answer is simply, well,
set the view's frame origin,
frame rotation,
other properties immediately.
Don't go through the view's animator,
which is the usual means
of initiating an animation,
but just set those
properties immediately.
If you're working with standalone layers,
that is, working with CA layers directly
that you've created yourself,
the situation is sort of the reverse.
Whereas for views,
the default is to not animate.
With core animation,
you get implied animations by default.
So you need to actually disable actions.
This is the means of suppressing
implied animations in core animations.
Disable actions in the
enclosing transaction,
and then you make all the layer
property changes you want before
you commit the transaction.
In either of these cases,
even though you're not using
the animation capabilities that
are built into core animation,
you still get the benefit
of content caching.
Your content is pre-rendered.
It's not going to be redrawn.
You're just moving stuff around,
so you still can get very smooth,
fluid animations.
So it's worth pointing out that
you still get some benefit even if
you're not using the animations,
if you're just moving
stuff around that's static.
So what about performance tuning?
What can you do to get the best
performance out of your Layer-Backed
View portions of your user interfaces?
One of the most important things to point
out is that it's important to minimize
backing store use in layer-backed mode.
And this is very different from
sort of the normal mode you're used
to with views in a window where
only the window has a backing store.
So you can have, say,
a text field that displays one word,
but it's got a lot of slop in it.
It's stretched across the
full width of the window,
has more room than it needs.
Well, the problem with that in
layer-backed mode is that that view
is going to get a backing store.
It's going to get a layer that is
sized exactly to the frame of the view.
So you may have pixels that
aren't being used there,
but that are nonetheless
allocated on the graphics card,
and you're wasting resources there.
So with layer-backed mode,
it's more important than it has been
before to crop your content tightly,
make your views crop as small
as you can around the actual
content that you need to draw.
Try not to leave empty
space in the margins.
Avoid unnecessary
redraw whenever you can.
And ways to do this include, as I said,
avoiding resizing.
Obviously, sometimes you need to
resize a view in your UI.
But if you can avoid doing it where
you don't need to do it... that will
make animations a whole lot smoother.
If you're just moving stuff around,
that's really fast.
But as I said, if you're resizing views,
including using animations,
and they're layer-backed, well,
we have to assume that we need
to potentially redraw the view
at each step along the animation.
That's going to be done
on the main thread.
It's going to occupy
view drawing machinery.
So it's going to be a bit of
a heavier load on the system.
So for now, try to avoid resizing.
Try to isolate static parts
of your user interface.
Things that don't need to be redrawn.
Take the dynamic parts.
I guess the flip side
of that would be to say,
isolate the dynamic parts,
the parts that you're going to
need to redraw in their own views,
so that you're just redrawing minimally.
[Transcript missing]
Another thing to do,
and this ties into a new feature
that we've added on Snow Leopard
that's beginning in your seed,
consider enabling your
views to draw concurrently.
We've been looking at, of course,
what's been happening with CPUs lately,
and we have machines with
up to eight cores now under
our desks or on our desks.
We want AppKit and the system as
a whole to be able to leverage
concurrency more effectively and
the ability to use multiple cores.
So it doesn't make a whole lot of sense
to force all of the view hierarchy to
draw just on the main thread anymore
because there may be other cores
that are idle and can help with that.
So we have a new canDrawConcurrently
property that's been added on NSView.
So you can flag individual views
as being able to draw concurrently,
and this gives AppKit permission
to call your view back,
to call its drawRect back
on a background thread.
So you're saying, my view,
you can safely invoke my drawRect.
There's a bunch of information about
this in the AppKit release notes.
What you need to do,
what are the requirements?
We've tried to make them as simple
as possible for your views to
be able to be considered thread
safe for concurrent drawing.
This is not leveraged yet in layer-backed
mode in the seed that you have,
but it is very likely that
layer-backed mode will take
advantage of this in the future.
On the one hand, when you think about it,
it's less of an issue because
you're ideally doing less
redraw in layer-backed mode,
right?
We're reusing existing content,
moving it around, recompositing.
So there's less overall redraw to do,
so maybe less important
to do it concurrently.
But then on the other hand,
we're drawing views individually
into their own backing layers,
so there's no longer
this order dependency.
The compositing happens as the last step,
so we can execute drawRects
in any order we want to,
so we have a lot more flexibility in
layer-backed mode in terms of how we
delegate things to different cores.
So consider using canDraw concurrently.
Typically, as the advice in the
AppKit release notes says,
we expect you'll want to just select a
few views that you have that do extra.
So we're going to use the
canDraw component to do that.
And then we're going to use the canDraw
component to do the other expensive
drawing that have complex drawing they
need to do and make those candidates.
What about drawing?
The rules for drawing are mostly
very similar in Layer-Backed Mode,
but there are a few
nuances to be aware of.
One is that the semantic difference
between sending set needs display to
one particular view and sending set
needs display to some ancestor of
the view or an overlapping sibling,
this didn't really matter
before in Non-Layer-Backed Mode.
If you mark a view as needing display,
in Non-Layer-Backed Mode, you know,
effectively you're saying, well,
the part of the window that this view
touches is going to have to be redrawn,
and the AppKit view system is going
to redraw all the views that it has
to that touch that area of the window.
Well, in Layer-Backed Mode, again,
each view is drawing into its own layer,
so we're only going to redraw the
backing layer or the portion of
the backing layer for the view
that you marked as needing display.
So be very specific about which views
you want redisplayed and which portions
of those views need to be redrawn.
Use set needs display
and rect when you can.
It's always a help.
Pixel alignment works a little bit
differently in Layer-Backed Mode.
In Layer-Backed Mode,
layer content is drawn, buffered,
axis aligned in the view's
own local coordinate system.
And this is important really for
when you have views that are rotated.
If you use the frame rotation or the
frame center rotation property on views,
you've got a view that's
rotated in a window.
Well,
normally with non-Layer-Backed Mode,
you'd end up, if you drew a horizontal
line in your view,
that would end up rasterized
sort of stair-step diagonally
in the window backing store.
Well, when you're drawing to a layer,
you're axis aligned as far
as you're concerned when
you're doing your own drawing.
And then that drawing is
rotated subsequently and
composited in like an image by
Core Animation's compositing system.
So, axis, so, sorry,
pixel alignment rules are a
little bit different there.
We provided some new pixel
alignment helper API.
These aren't specifically
for pixel alignment,
but they get you to where you
need to be to do pixel alignment.
These were added in Leopard.
We have convert rect to base,
convert point to base,
convert size to base.
And what they do, and then there are the
corresponding from methods,
convert rect from base,
convert point from base,
convert size from base.
And base space is basically defined
as a space that is reasonable for you
to do pixel alignment calculations in.
In other words, if you round to integral
values in that space,
you will get pixel aligned drawing.
So, for Layer-Backed Mode, well,
base space is the layer's
own backing store space,
the actual pixels in
the layer backing store.
For non-Layer-Backed Mode,
it's going to be the
window's backing store space.
And the nice thing about these convert
to and from base methods that are on
NSView is that they do the right thing,
whether or not you're
in Layer-Backed Mode,
and you don't need to worry about that.
So, I encourage you to use those.
Okay.
What about debugging?
What do you do when things aren't
quite going the way you expected,
the animations that you set up and were
all ready to see didn't quite show up?
Well, we have some tips to help you
debug those kinds of situations.
I'll be talking about some
private elements that are not
part of AppKit's public API,
but that are things that are
nonetheless useful for debugging.
So, don't depend on these in your code.
Absolutely don't try to parse their
output because the output could go away
or it could change at any point in time.
But this stuff has been
there since at least Leopard,
so it may be useful.
One that's useful with
Layer-Backed Views,
potentially, is NSDebugLayerAnimations.
This is a user default.
It's a Boolean.
You set it to yes,
and what it does is it will have
AppKit automatically log out
indications of animation for key
and default animation for key.
So, these happen when AppKit or
CoreAnimation is searching for an
animation to use for a property change.
That's sort of how the model
works for implied animations.
You change the property and
then AppKit or CoreAnimation
calls you back and says,
well, okay,
you want to change this property.
Which animation should I use
or should I use an animation
at all to change this property?
So, NSDebugLayerAnimations, yes,
is useful for that, potentially.
Alternatively,
that can create a lot of spew because
it'll give you output for all of
the views that are being asked for
animations in your application.
So, you might just override.
You could override animation for key,
which is the funnel point
that AppKit uses for searching
for a view's animation.
That's a method on NSView.
You could override that and,
for your specific view class,
provide some logging in there.
NSDebugLayerActivity logs out
information about the pushes that
I talked about when a view property
changes and AppKit figures out,
okay, we need to update the corresponding
layer property or when we need
to redraw a view content to the
layer every time that happens.
So, like all other user defaults,
you can use these on the command line
when you're launching your application.
So, you can use this in the command line,
you can use this in the command line
when you're launching your application.
You can use this in the command line
You can use this in GDB using
setargs and the same sort of dash
syntax with the value afterward.
And if you're using Xcode,
you can open up the inspector for your
executable and there's a nice little
list that you can specify a bunch
of different arguments you want and
check them on and off as you're doing
debugging or not wanting debugging.
What about when you want to take
a look at what the geometry of
your view tree looks like in the
corresponding backing layer tree?
Well, there's a subtree description
method that's been in
there actually since Tiger.
And again, this is something not
to rely on in your code.
This could go away.
Its output could change.
Please don't parse the output or rely
on it because your code will break.
But when you're in there in GDB,
it can be very useful.
And this works for non-layer-backed
views as well as layer-backed views.
So let's say you have
a pointer to some view.
A subtree description is analogous
to the public description method.
It's a debugging method.
It returns you an NSString.
So if you print out the value
of the subtree description,
you get sort of a one line per view.
If you're not on a wrap display,
you get a one line per view sort
of summary of the view hierarchy
with indenting indicating nesting.
The following slides are a little bit
of a cheat sheet at the bottom that
helps you interpret some of the flags.
Look at what all of this consists of.
How do you interpret this stuff?
First, there's a set of square brackets.
Each view corresponds to
one line in the output,
so we're looking at
the line for one view.
There are various Boolean flags.
Here we have a view that has
a capital W that tells us that
it's set as wanting a layer,
and it also has a hardware
surface that it's rendering into,
which is consistent with
layer-backed rendering.
If the view auto-resized its subviews,
its auto-resizing mask is indicated next.
The horizontal and vertical components,
where a dash indicates a rigid
component and an ampersand,
think of it like a spring in
the old interface builder UI.
It indicates a flexible space.
You'll see the name of the class
and an instance pointer to the view,
so if you want to inspect it further,
you can use that pointer,
copy and paste it into
GDB's command line.
You'll see the frame for the view,
origin, width, and height.
The bounds for the view oftentimes
will just be indicated as a dash,
because the case for most
views is that a view's bounds,
unless you explicitly
set a bounds for a view,
the view's bounds track the view's frame,
where the bounds is implicitly
has an origin of 00,
a width equal to the frame width,
and a height equal to the frame height.
So you'll see that oftentimes,
but if the view has an explicit bounds,
you'll see it displayed there.
If the view has a backing layer,
if the view is in layer-backed
mode or has an associated layer,
you'll see an arrow next.
And then the class name and
pointer of the view backing layer.
You'll see the position of
the layer and its bounds,
and it's linked to its super layer.
In this case, it's the top level,
so it has no super layer.
So subtree description,
underbar subtree description,
remember this,
it can be very useful for debugging both
non-layer-backed and layer-backed cases.
And of course,
remember that it's private.
For when you're working with
either view backing layers or just
a raw core animation layer tree,
a standalone layer tree,
there's also a debugging facility.
And if you're working with a
raw core animation layer tree,
there's also a debugging facility.
Core animation is particularly useful.
This is an environment variable,
not a user default.
If you set ca print tree,
that's ca underscore
print underscore tree,
all uppercase,
set that to one in your environment
before you run your app,
core animations render thread
will dump a description.
Each time it renders a frame,
it's going to tell you the time it's
rendering at and the bounds of the root,
and then it'll give you a similar
sort of subtree description of
what does the layer tree look like.
So you'll see.
Things like I won't go over all of this,
but you'll see the position of the layer.
And remember, it has X, Y,
and an optional Z position
that's usually zero.
It's always zero for view backing layers.
Layers bounds, the layers anchor point.
We'll talk about that in a bit.
So those are all useful,
hopefully useful to you techniques
that you can use for debugging stuff
and seeing what's going on there
when what you expect isn't happening.
Sequencing Animations:
How can I put multiple
animations together?
How can I know when an
animation has completed?
Core Animation provides two
powerful CA Animation subclasses:
CA Keyframe Animation and
CA Animation Group.
CA Keyframe Animation is a group of
animations that work together to create
complex and intricate animations.
We'll look at CA Keyframe
Animation first briefly.
A keyframe animation animates a
single property through a sequence
of waypoint values that you define.
I want it to go from here
to here to here to here.
When we hear keyframe,
we think of frames and positions,
and it does apply to that kind of thing.
If you have a view or a layer and
you have a sequence of positions
that you want it to go through,
you can use a keyframe animation to
have it go from 0 to 1 to 2 to 3.
It also applies to other
types of properties as well.
Maybe you want to animate the view
through a series of angle positions,
or maybe you want to change its
color through a series of colors and
have it interpolate through those.
These are all the kinds
of things that you can do,
for example, with keyframe animations.
For a keyframe animation,
the key path names the property
that you want to animate.
So if you're working
with layers directly,
you'll be naming a layer property here.
But when you're working
with Layer-Backed Views,
remember it's a view property
that you're animating,
that you're specifying.
AppKit will automatically try to
translate that key to a corresponding
layer property to be animated.
The values array on CA Keyframe
Animation specifies the
waypoints that I described.
These are the points that you want to
hit along the way as you're animating.
You can optionally specify an
array of corresponding key times,
of the same number of key
times as you specified values,
and that'll say, well,
here's where in time I want you
to hit each of those values.
You can also specify timing functions.
If you have n values and key times,
you can have n-1 timing functions
that specify what sort of acceleration
curve should be used in moving
between any particular pair of points.
So you can specify an ease-in,
ease-out curve is a popular one,
that kind of thing.
And there are some other optional
properties that you can use as
alternative ways to specify how
the value will change over time.
But those first ones are
the main interesting ones.
But again, with CA Keyframe Animation,
we're talking about animating a single
property through a sequence of values.
So what if you have something
more complex you want to do?
You want to animate multiple
properties of an object,
maybe color, position, orientation.
You want to animate
multiple objects at once.
How do you handle that kind of thing?
Well,
that's where CA Animation Group comes in.
And it's a very simple yet powerful
construct that allows you to arbitrarily
aggregate animations together.
You can have animations of various types,
including other animation groups.
So these can be nested in
a hierarchy themselves.
You can animate various properties
of all kinds of different types,
colors, geometry, that sort of thing.
And you can animate multiple target
objects at once with an animation group,
because again,
you're just gathering up a bunch
of other kinds of animations
and executing them together.
CA Animation Group,
like Keyframe Animation,
is a subclass of CA Animation.
So it can be used anywhere in the
API that a CA Animation is called for.
There's one important property
for CA Animation Group.
Well, maybe two.
The main one is the Animations property,
which provides the animations
that you're giving it.
Okay, I'm gathering these up,
make these into a group.
Animations is typed as an NSArray,
but really it almost might
as well be an NS set because
the order of the constituent
components is not significant.
What is significant is the
timing properties that are
set on those sub-animations.
It's the timing properties that specify
where each sub-animation gets executed,
when it starts, what speed it goes at,
what duration it runs for.
And these are the eight timing
properties that are defined by
the CA Media Timing Protocol that
all CA animations conform to.
The other interesting property to note is
the group's duration is important in that
whatever sub-animations you put in there,
it doesn't matter what their
begin times and durations are,
they will be clipped to
the duration of the parent.
So when the group duration has expired,
none of its constituent animations
will continue to execute.
They're all done at that point.
Timing Model:
These are the eight basic and
not-so-basic timing properties
that you can use to have animations
be driven in various kinds of ways.
There are four in particular
that are interesting to focus on.
Duration and begin time are
probably the two most basic.
When the animation starts,
how long it runs for.
These are both in seconds.
Optionally,
you can also specify a time offset
and a speed that work in this sort
of linear equation to map local
layer time to animation time.
But most of the time,
your time offset is zero.
Your speed is 1.0,
so this collapses to basically you're
figuring out how far along you are in
the animation linearly with no scaling.
So duration and begin time,
those are the real important
ones to pay attention to as
we're looking at some examples.
Okay, so concretely,
let's say we have an animation group.
We want to execute an
animation for one second.
And simplest case, we have, let's say,
two constituent animations that
we want to put in those groups.
And we want those all to start
together and execute for the
same one second duration.
How do we set this up in code?
Well, let's say we've allocated a
CA animation group called group.
We set its animations property to
an array of consisting of anim two.
Specify a duration for the group.
Remember to do that.
That defines the duration
it's going to run for.
And then let's say anim one,
we want it to begin at time zero,
the beginning of the group.
The group has its own local time.
So time zero is the
beginning of that group.
We want it to execute for one second.
Same thing with anim two.
Begin at time zero,
execute for one second.
And that's how you would set
up simultaneous animations.
Okay.
So let's say we have an animation group.
We want it to begin at time zero,
execute for one second.
And that's how you would set
up simultaneous animations.
Okay.
using groups.
So this is very powerful in that groups
aren't just sequences of animations,
you can do all kinds of things with them.
You can have an animation
proceed after another animation.
Let's say we want Anim1 to run
for three quarters of a second,
we set its duration to 0.75.
Anim2 should start at the end of that,
so we set its begin time to
0.75 and its duration to 0.25,
so it runs for the remaining
quarter second of the group.
You can do all kinds of other
things like overlapping animations,
so having them execute
partially together.
You can have gaps in between animations
where for a quarter of a second here
we have nothing happening after Anim1
completes and before Anim2 starts.
And again, the scales to arbitrary
numbers of animations you
want to put into the group.
So animation groups,
very powerful constructs,
and also keyframe animations,
very powerful constructs.
So what's the crucial last step?
Once you've built your animation
group or keyframe animation,
how do you use this?
There are a couple of different
approaches you can use in the AppKit API.
There's the per instance approach
and the per class approach.
If you have a particular view
instance and you just want that
particular instance to fire off
the animation you've constructed
when one of its properties changes,
let's say here we have the
frame origin property of view.
When that changes,
we want to fire off this
animation group we've constructed.
You use the set animations method.
Each view has an animations dictionary.
Each view instance has its own
dictionary of animations that
maps property key names to.
So if you have a custom view class and
you want all the instances of your custom
view class to do the same thing when,
say, frame origin changes,
you can use the set animations method.
A better thing to do is to override
the class method default animation
for key on your view class.
And you'll look at the
incoming key and say,
hey, is that the key I'm interested in?
Is it frame origin?
Okay, well, if so,
I've got this complex animation.
Maybe it's keyframe animation,
group animation,
whatever that I want to be applied
to change the frame origin or
when the frame origin is changed.
Always call up to super if
you don't recognize the key.
This is the chaining mechanism
for default animation for key
so you can inherit default
animations from your super classes.
So lastly,
how do we know when animation's complete?
Simple question with a
surprisingly simple answer,
or actually a set of different answers.
If you really want to get a callback
when your animation completes,
and you happen to be providing your
own CA animation instance already,
like when we created our own
group or keyframe animation,
well then, you can just easily set the
delegate of that animation.
Each animation can have a delegate.
And the delegate,
if it implements these methods,
will get animationDidStart
and animationDidStopFinished.
It begins executing
and when it terminates.
But alternatively,
if that's not convenient,
remember that you can also rely on
animations completing in wall clock time.
All of Core Animation's facilities are
designed to be scalable to system load.
So the system can be really loaded down,
but if your animation was set
to execute for three seconds,
well, when three seconds of
wall clock time go by,
it's going to be done.
So this means that you can
just use something simple
like a timer to call you back,
an NS timer or other equivalent
OS facility to give you a poke when
the animation duration has elapsed.
And often that's actually simpler
because then you don't have to mess
with creating your own animation
when you wouldn't otherwise have to.
And then, of course,
remember in the context of looking
at groups and keyframe animations,
in many cases,
the ability to sequence animations,
if that's all you want to do is
have animation A happen before
animation B and then animation C,
you can do that with groups.
And you don't need to get a callback.
You just set that all up
in advance and let it fly.
So we have a brief demo of that,
just to give you an idea how that works.
This will also be available very
soon for download as sample code.
It is in the pipe.
This is intentionally designed as
a very simple example so that the
code is not overly complicated,
but we are animating three
different properties of a view.
We have this blue sort of
canvas view that draws some
guide points that tell us,
well, we're going to take this
orange sub-view and we want to
move it through to point one,
to point two, to point three.
And you can see we're going to change the
orientation of the view as we go along.
So we're changing not only
the view's frame origin,
we're going to change its
frame rotation as we go,
and we're also going to have
it change colors as we go.
So when we execute that animation...
This is done using both keyframe
animations and animation groups.
I'm using a group as the top-level
animation so that I can aggregate
these different animations together.
For each of the
properties being animated,
I'm using a keyframe animation.
There's a keyframe animation for
the frame origin that specifies
where the corner of the view goes.
There's a keyframe animation for
the scalar frame rotation property.
And there's a keyframe animation
also for the color property.
One interesting thing to note,
NSColor properties,
AppKit didn't know how to interpolate
those or animate them in Leopard,
although there's a neat trick.
If you link against the Quartz framework,
there's a category inside Quartz
Composer that provides that.
So it'll actually work.
This is running on 10.5.3, by the way,
on Leopard.
As I think I meant to say before,
all of these techniques that
I'm describing today work on
Leopard as well as Snow Leopard.
So you can link against
the Quartz framework to get
NSColor animation support.
On Leopard or in the
Snow Leopard seed that you have,
this is fixed.
It's an intrinsic part of AppKit now.
So you have NSColor animation built in.
And another interesting thing
to point out is that all of
this animation capability that
we built into AppKit is also,
even if you're using
CA animations to describe it,
you don't have to be in
layer back mode to use it.
So when I toggle off
this layer back checkbox,
now we're just running in
conventional view drawing mode.
And the frame rate maybe
isn't quite as fluid,
but it's pretty good.
And I haven't changed anything
otherwise about the way that the
animation is specified and implemented.
Okay.
So that is group animations and keyframe
animations operating simultaneously.
I don't have time to go through
the code step-by-step on stage,
but there's going to be a readme with it.
It's all set to go.
So as soon as that's
available to download,
I hope you will take a look
at it and encourage you to
examine it at your leisure.
So we can go back to slides, please.
So, one more topic, last topic for today.
Hopefully you left a little
room in your memories for it.
Layer and view geometry mapping.
Why is this important?
Why are the differences between
NSView's geometry and a CA layer's
model of geometry important?
Leo Parad Well,
it turns out to matter a bit
because AppKit has to do some
automatic mapping between view
properties and layer properties,
as I said, to implement that push model.
And we try to get it
right most of the time.
In some cases,
it doesn't quite come out looking
like what you might expect,
and you might have animations
hanging off of certain key values
that don't seem to get executed.
So, why is that sometimes?
As I said, there are many similarities
between the geometry models,
but there are several
important differences.
So, let's take a look at what
those differences are.
is the founder of the Let's look at this
slide on accommodating those differences.
As I said, we map view property
changes to layer properties.
Every time we change a view property,
I'm probably...
Every time you change a view property,
we're going to map that to
a change in one or more of a
backing layer's properties.
That's really the most
important point on this slide,
is that it's not necessarily
a one-to-one mapping.
We change a view property,
sometimes we're going to have to change
more than one layer property to get
the corresponding look on the screen.
So what do these two models look like
when we look at them side by side?
First thing interesting to
point out is that AppKit strives
to be resolution independent,
so all view geometry properties
are specified in units of points,
which are ideally a 72nd of an inch,
whereas Core Animation doesn't
really try to deal with
resolution independence issues.
You specify everything in
pixel units always with layers.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco So this will come
up if you're looking at your Layer-Backed
View tree and you use PO of your view
subtree description and you look at the
backing layers bounds and you'll say,
well, if you're running at more
than a 1.0 scale factor,
you might notice that the
layer is going to be sized
numerically larger than the view.
AppKit automatically does that
to try to accommodate running
at higher scale factors.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco
What about exterior geometry?
For a view, the primary determiner of the
view's size is its frame size.
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco Whereas for a layer,
it's really bounds that's
a more intrinsic property.
Bounds is what defines how many
pixels wide and high a layer is,
as well as what the layer's
interior coordinate origin is.
For positioning with views,
we use frame origin.
Whereas for a CA layer,
figuring out where the layer
goes in its super layer,
determining that is done by a
combination of setting the layer's
position and also an anchor point
value that basically specifies,
well,
what part of this layer should I pin
to that position in my super layer?
Leo Parmigiano-Rocco We do have a concept
of frame in the AppKit level for NSView,
but really it's frame size and
frame origin that are the more
fundamental properties for a view.
In that if you invoke
set frame for a view,
well, AppKit behind the scenes is just
going through the public set frame
size and set frame origin methods.
Those are the fundamental components,
and frame is really more
of a convenience concept.
The same is true for CA layers.
There's a frame property
defined on CA layer,
but that's really a convenience.
When you set a layer's frame,
Core Animation under the hood
figures out that it's a frame.
It figures out, okay, well,
what position do I need
to assign to the layer?
What's the layer's new bound size going
to be in order to get the same effect?
So frame is really kind
of a convenience concept.
In terms of other exterior transforms,
you can rotate a view by setting
the view's frame rotation.
Core Animation exposes a bit more
of a general model for CA layers.
You can apply an arbitrary transform
defined by any 4x4 matrix to a
layer to scale and translate and
rotate and do all of those things.
with a single property.
Interior Coordinates.
As you may know from working with views,
views can be flipped.
And when an NS view is flipped,
that means its origin for its own
drawing and for positioning of
subviews is in its upper left corner.
And its y-axis extends
downward from the top.
So positive y goes down.
This is convenient for
certain kinds of views.
But it doesn't really affect the views.
It affects where the views,
immediate subviews get positioned,
how their frame origins are interpreted.
But it's not recursive in effect
further down the view tree.
In Snow Leopard, C.A.
Layer introduces an IsGeometryFlipped
property that John Harper talked about
in the Core Animation talks yesterday.
IsGeometryFlipped is a
recursive property in effect.
Sort of affects the whole layer
hierarchy going all the way down.
So it's not really
exactly the same concept.
It has a different purpose really,
which is to accommodate...
Porting your code that works with
layers between the iPhone or iPod
Touch world and the Mac desktop world
where things are flipped differently.
So those don't really map
to each other exactly.
What about translation?
When you want to shift
the contents of a view,
you've got more content
than will fit in your view,
and so you're just drawing a
certain visible portion at a time.
This is accomplished using bounds
origin changes at the NSView level.
You change a view's bounds origin,
and you end up changing which rectangle
of your content it ends up drawing.
Same thing in that case
actually applies to CA layers.
But it's important to note that bounds
is an atomic property for a layer.
It's not bound size and bounds origin
that are the fundamental components,
but bounds itself is one value that
you can set atomically as a unit.
Scaling and other kinds of transforms.
You can set the bound size for a view.
You can set the bounds rotation.
Bounds rotation hasn't been really
useful to people over the years.
It's kind of esoteric, but it's there.
Again, in the Layer Kit land,
or rather Core Animation land, sorry,
you can apply more general kinds
of transforms at draw time.
It's not defined in the
CA Layer API exactly as a property,
but you can just apply whatever
transforms you want when you're
doing your drawing and hit testing.
So why is this important to know?
Well, let's take an example where
we have a Layer-Backed View,
and we're changing its frame origin.
And we're messaging the
view through its animator,
so we want to get an animation.
is the founder of AppKit.
He's the founder of the new layer
that maps to this new origin.
When the view is layer-backed,
AppKit starts by mapping this to, okay,
well, changing the view's frame origin
means I've got to update the
layer's corresponding position.
So we figure out the corresponding
position for the layer that maps
to that new origin for the view.
[Transcript missing]
So that's what we have for today.
In brief recap,
we looked at layer life cycles and how
to deal with layers coming and going.
The take-home point there,
override set layer.
That's an excellent funnel point to find
out when you're getting a backing layer,
when it's getting pulled away from you,
so you can adapt to that if you need to.
Subpixel anti-aliasing works
differently in layer-backed mode.
And the best solution there is usually
to either provide an opaque background
for your viewer control so that you
get good quality LCD anti-aliasing,
or leave your control without a
background and fall back to whole
pixel anti-aliasing by disabling font
smoothing in the graphics context.
We looked at how to drive
motion programmatically,
real simple.
Performance drawing and debugging tips.
Sequencing animations.
Again, there will be a code sample,
a sequencing code sample that
should be available very soon.
You can inspect the code,
and there's a readme that
explains how it all works.
That's the very same example
that I showed here just now.
And we looked at how layer
and view geometry compare,
and hopefully I didn't confuse
you too much with that.
Try not to let it hurt your head.
But it's just good to know that
things are a little different,
and even where the same terms are used,
things like frame and bounds,
they don't necessarily
quite mean the same thing,
so be careful about that.
We will have a Q&A session briefly.
We have about 10 minutes
for Q&A after this talk.
But for anything more complicated,
if you have a very complicated issue or
some debugging issue you need help with,
I'd like to also point out
there's a Cocoa Lab that started
at noon and is continuing until,
I believe, 1.45 today.
I will be there immediately after
this talk to try to help answer any
more in-depth questions you may have.
So I encourage you to come.
There were a couple of
Core Animation sessions
yesterday that were an excellent
introduction to Core Animation and
all the details of how it works.
Those will serve you well,
even if you're working
with Layer-Backed Views.
It helps to understand what's
happening under the hood.
So when those become
available on ADC on iTunes,
I encourage you to look at those.
We have three more excellent
Cocoa sessions lined
up for this afternoon,
back-to-back.
At 2 o'clock in Marina, we will have a
Cocoa Performance Techniques
talk that is all new.
This is something that hasn't
been presented before at WWDC.
And there's a bunch of new material
in there covering new Snow Leopard
features and techniques you can
use specifically on Snow Leopard,
as well as on earlier OSs for
optimizing things like caching,
purgeable memory,
ways to exploit concurrency and ways
that we provide concurrent APIs for
you in AppKit and Foundation to
enable you to leverage multi-core
machines more effectively.
Polishing your Cocoa application
in Russian Hill today at 3.30.
And another performance session
focusing on document-centric Cocoa apps.
If you're using the NS Document.
You'll want to go to Russian Hill today
at 5 o'clock to hear about that.
And I believe there will also be some
talk about sudden termination in there,
a new feature of Snow Leopard.
For more information about any of this,
you can contact Derek Horn if you like.
He's our
Application Technologies Evangelist.
I encourage you to read the documentation
that we have and also keep an eye on the
App Kit release notes for latest changes,
especially starting with your seed
because we've been working on stuff.
Your feedback and bug reports
matter very much to us.
This is a technology that we're very
interested in advancing further.
We have some ideas in mind about
things that we want to improve in it,
but we'd like to know especially
what's important to you,
what kinds of issues have you run into.